[SOUND]
[APPLAUSE]
>> Khan Academy is most known for
its collection of videos.
So before I go any father,
let me show you a little bit of a montage.
So the hypotenuse is now going to be 5.
This animals fossils are only found
in this area of South America.
A nice clean band here and
this part of Africa.
We could integrate over the surface and
the notation usually is a capital sigma,
national assembly, they create
the committee of public safety.
Which sounds like a very nice committee.
Notice this is an aldehyde and
it's an alcohol.
Start differentiating into effector and
memory cells.
A galaxy, hey, there's another galaxy.
Oh, look, there's another galaxy.
And for dollars is their 30 million plus
the $20 million from
the American manufacturer.
If this does not blow your mind,
then you have no emotion.
[APPLAUSE] We now have on
the order of 2200 videos covering
everything from basic arithmetic
all the way to vector calculus and
some of the stuff that you saw up there.
We have a million students
a month using the site,
watching on the order of 100
to 200,000 videos a day.
But what we're gonna talk about in this
is how we're going to the next level.
But before I do that,
I wanna talk a little bit about
really just how I got started.
Some of you all might now,
about five years ago I was
an analyst at a hedge fund.
And I was in Boston, and I was tutoring
my cousins in New Orleans remotely.
And I started putting
the first YouTube videos up,
really just as kind of a nice to have,
just kind of a supplement for my cousins.
Something that might give them
a refresher or something.
And as soon as I put those first YouTube
videos up, something interesting happened.
Actually, a bunch of
interesting things happened.
The first was the feedback
from my cousins.
They told me that they preferred
me on YouTube than in person.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And once you get over the backhanded
nature of that, there was actually
something very profound there.
They were saying that they preferred
the automated version of their cousin
to their cousin.
At first it's very unintuitive, but when
you actually think about it from their
point of view it makes a ton of sense.
You have this situation where now they
can pause and repeat their cousin.
Now they can, without feeling like they're
wasting my time, they could, if they have
to review something that they should
have learned a couple of weeks ago or
maybe a couple of years ago they
don't have to be embarrassed and
ask their cousin,
they can just watch those videos.
If they're bored, they can go ahead,
they can watch it at their own time,
at their own pace.
And probably,
the least appreciated, I guess,
aspect of this,
is the notion that the very first time,
the very first time that you're trying
to get your brain around a new concept.
The very last thing you need is
a another human being saying,
do you understand this?
And that what's happening with
the interaction with my cousins before and
now they can just do it kind of in
the intimacy of their own room.
The other thing that happened
is I put it on YouTube just for
you know, I saw no reason to make it
private so I let other people watch it.
And then people started stumbling on it.
And I started getting some comments and
some letters and
all sorts of kind of feedback from
random people around the world.
And these are just a few.
This is actually from one of
the original calculus videos.
And someone wrote just on YouTube,
it was a YouTube comment.
First time I smiled at doing a derivative.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Let's pause here.
This person did a derivative and
then they smiled.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And
then in response to that same comment,
this was on the thread.
You can go on YouTube and
look at these comments someone else wrote,
same thing here.
I actually got a natural high and
a good mood for the entire day.
Since I remember seeing all of
this Matrix text in class, and
here I'm all like, I know Kung Fu.
>> [LAUGH]
And we got a lot of feedback along those
lines.
It clearly was helping people.
But then,
as the viewership kept growing, and
kept growing, I started getting
letters from people, and it was
starting to become clear that it was
actually more than just a nice to have.
This is just an excerpt
from one of those letters.
My 12 year old son has autism, and
has had a terrible time with math.
We have tried everything,
viewed everything, bought everything.
We stumbled on your video on decimals,
and I got through.
Then we went on to the dreaded fractions,
again he got it.
We could not believe it.
He is so excited.
And so you can imagine, here I was,
an analyst that it was very strange for
me to do something a social value.
[LAUGH] I was.
[APPLAUSE] But
I was excited so I kept going,
and then a few other things
started to dawn on me.
That not only wold it help
my cousins right now or
these people who were sending letters,
but it could maybe that this content will
never go old, that it could help
their kids or their grand kids.
If Isaac Newton had done YouTube videos
on calculus, I wouldn't have to.
[LAUGH] Assuming he was good.
We don't know.
[LAUGH] [LAUGH] The other
thing that happened.
And, even at this point,
I said okay maybe it's a good supplement.
It's good for motivated students.
It's good for maybe home schoolers.
But I didn't think it would be
something that would somehow penetrate
the classroom.
But then I started getting
letters from teachers.
And the teachers would write saying, we've
used your videos to flip the classroom.
You've given the lectures.
So now what we do, and this could actually
happen in every classroom in America
tomorrow, what I do is I assign
the lectures for homework and
what used to be homework I now have
students doing in the classroom.
And I wanna pause here for.
[APPLAUSE] I want to pause here for
a second because there's
a couple of interesting things.
One, when those teachers are doing
that there's the obvious benefit.
There's the benefit
that now their students
can enjoy the videos in
the way that my cousins did.
They can pause, repeat at their own pace,
at their own time.
But the more interesting thing, and
this is the unintuitive thing when you
talk about technology in the classroom.
By removing the one size fits
all lecture from the classroom,
and letting students have
a self-paced lecture at home.
And then when you go to the classroom,
letting them do work,
having the teacher walk around.
Having the peers actually be able
to interact with each other.
These teachers have used technology
to humanize the classroom.
They took a fundamentally
dehumanizing experience, a bunch of,
30 kids with their fingers on lips,
not allowed to interact with each other.
A teacher, no matter how good,
has to give this kind of one size
fits all lecture to 30 students.
Blank faces, slightly antagonistic.
And now it's a human experience.
Now they're actually
interacting with each other.
So once the Khan Academy kind of.
I quit my job, and
we turned into a real organization.
We're a not for profit.
The question is,
how do we take this to the next level?
How do we take what those teachers were
doing to their natural conclusion?
And so, what I'm showing over here,
these are actual exercises that I
started writing for my cousins.
The ones I started were
much more primitive.
This is kind of a more
competent version of it.
But the paradigm here is well, we'll
generate as many questions as you need
until you get that concept,
until you get ten in a row.
And the Khan Academy videos are there,
you get hints the actual steps for
that problem if you
don't know how to do it.
But the paradigm is it seems like
a very simple thing, ten in a row and
you move on.
But it's fundamentally different than
what's happening in classrooms right now.
In a traditional classroom you have
a couple of a homework, lecture, homework,
lecture and then you have a snapshot exam.
And that exam whether you get a 70%,
an 80%, a 90% or
a 95% the class moves
on to the next topic.
And even that 95% student,
what was the 5% they didn't know.
Maybe they didn't know what happens when
you raise something to the zero power, and
then you go build on
that in the next concept.
That's analogous to imagine learning to
ride a bicycle, and I give you a bicycle.
Maybe I give you a lecture ahead of time,
and I give you that bicycle for two weeks.
And then I come back after two weeks and
I say,
well let's see you're having trouble
taking left turns, you can't quite stop.
You're an 80% bicyclist, so
I put a big C stamp on your forehead.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And then I say here's a unicycle.
>> But as ridiculous as that sounds,
that's exactly what's happening
in our classrooms right now.
And the idea is that you fast forward, and
good students start failing algebra all
of a sudden, and
start failing calculus all of a sudden.
Despite being smart, despite having good
teachers, and it's usually because they
have these swiss cheese gaps that kept
building throughout their foundation.
So, our model is learn math
the way you learn anything.
Like the way you learn a bicycle, stay
on that bicycle, fall off that bicycle.
Do it as long as necessary
until you have mastery.
There are traditional model, it penalizes
you for experimentation and failure,
but it does not expect mastery.
We encourage you to experiment.
We encourage you to failure,
but we do expect mastery.
This is just another one of the modules.
This is trigonometry.
This is shifting and reflecting functions.
And they all fit together.
We have about 90 of these right now.
And you could go to the site right now,
it's all free.
I'm not trying to sell you anything.
But the general idea is that they
all fit into this knowledge map.
That top node right there,
that's literally single digit addition.
It's like one plus one is equal to two.
And the paradigm is once you
get ten in a row on that,
then it keeps forwarding you to more and
more advanced modules.
So, if you keep further
down the knowledge map,
we're getting into more
advanced arithmetic.
Further down you start getting into
pre-algebra and early algebra, further
down you start getting into algebra one,
algebra two, a little bit of pre-calculus.
And the idea is from this,
we can actually teach everything.
Well, everything that can be taught
in this type of a framework.
So you can imagine, and
this is what we are working on,
is from this knowledge map you have logic,
you have computer programming,
you have grammar, you have genetics.
All based off of that core of okay,
if you know this and that,
now you're ready for this next concept.
Now, that can work well for an individual
learner, and then I encourage one, for
you to do it with your kids.
But I also encourage everyone in
the audience to do it yourself.
It'll change what happens
at the dinner table.
But what we wanna do is use the natural
conclusion of the flipping of
the classroom that those early
teachers had emailed me about.
And so what I'm showing you here,
this is actually data from a pilot in
the Los Altos School District, where
they took two fifth grade classes and
two seventh grade classes and completely
gutted their old math curriculum.
These kids aren't using textbooks.
They're not getting one
size fits all lectures.
They're doing Khan Academy.
They're doing that software for
roughly half of their math class, and
I wanna make it clear, we don't view
this as the complete math education.
What it does is, and this is what's
happening in Los Altos, it frees up time.
This is the blocking and
tackling, making sure you know how
to deal with a system of equations.
And it frees up time for the simulations,
for the games, for the mechanics, for
the robot building, for the estimating how
high that hill is based on its shadow.
And so the paradigm is,
the teacher walks in everyday.
Every kid works at their own pace, and
a teacher gets, this is actually a live
dashboard from Los Altos School District,
and they look at this dashboard.
Every row is a student,
every column is one of those concepts.
Green means the student's
already proficient.
Blue means that they're working on it,
no need to worry.
Red means they're stuck.
And what the teacher does
is literally just says,
let me intervene on the red kids.
Or even better, let me get one of the
green kids who are already proficient in
that concept to be the first line of
attack, and actually tutor their peer.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Now,
I kinda come from a very data-centric
reality, so we don't want that
teacher to even go and intervene and
have to ask the kid awkward questions.
Oh, what do you not understand, or what do
you do understand, and all of the rest.
So our paradigm is to really arm the
teachers with as much data as possible,
really data that, in almost any other
field, is expected if you're in finance or
marketing or manufacturing.
And so the teachers can actually diagnose
what's wrong with the students, so
that they can make their interaction
as productive as possible.
So, now the teachers know exactly
what the students have been up to,
how long they've been spending every day.
What videos have they been watching?
When did they pause the videos?
What did they stop watching?
What exercises are they using?
What have they been focused on?
The outer circle shows what
the exercises they were focused on.
The inner circle shows
the videos they're focused on.
And the data gets pretty granular,
so you can actually see the exact problems
that the student got right or wrong.
Red is wrong, blue is right.
The left most question is the first
question that the student attempted.
They watched the video right over there.
And then you could see eventually,
they were able to get ten in a row.
It's almost like you can almost see them
learning over those last ten problems.
They also got faster.
The height is how long it took them.
So, when you talk about
self-paced learning,
it makes sense for everyone in education
speak differentiated learning, but
it's kind of crazy what happens when
you actually see it in a classroom.
Because every time we've done this in
every class room over and over again,
if you go five days into it, there's
a group of kids who have raced ahead, and
there's a group of kids who
are a little bit slower.
And in a traditional model, if you do
the snapshot assessment, you say oh,
these are the gifted kids,
these are the slow kids.
Maybe we should be tracked differently,
maybe we should put them
in different classes.
But when you let every student work at
their own pace, and we see it over and
over and over again.
You see students who took a little bit
extra time on one concept or the other,
but once they get through that
concept they just race ahead.
And so the same kids you thought
were slow, six weeks ago,
you now would think are gifted.
And we’re seeing it over and
over and over again, and
it makes you really wonder,
kind of how much all of the labels,
maybe us have benefited from, were really
just due to a coincidence of time.
Now, as valuable as something like
this is in a district like Los Altos,
our goal is to use technology to humanize,
not just in Los Altos, but
kind of on a global scale,
what's happening in education.
Actually, that kind of rings an
interesting point that a lot of the effort
in humanizing the classroom is
focused on student to teacher rations.
In our mind the relevant metric
is student to valuable human time
with the teacher ration.
So in a traditional model, most of the
teachers time is spent doing lectures, and
grading test, and what not.
Maybe 5% of their time is actually
sitting next to students, and
actually working with them.
Now, 100% of their time is.
So once again, using technology,
not just flipping the classroom.
You're humanizing the classroom,
I'd argue, by a factor of five or ten.
And as valuable as it is in Los Altos,
imagine what that does to the adult
learner who's embarrassed to go back and
learn stuff that they should have
known before going back to college.
Imagine what it does to a street
kid in Calcutta who has to help
his family during the day, and that's the
reason why he or she can't go to school.
Now, they can spend two hours a day and
remediate, or get up to speed and
not feel embarrassed about what they do or
don't know.
Now, imagine what happens where,
we talked about the peers teaching each
other inside of a classroom,
but this is all one system.
There's no reason why you can't have that
peer to peer tutoring beyond that one
classroom.
Imagine what happens if that student in
Calcutta all of a sudden can tutor your
son, or
your son can tutor that kid in Calcutta.
And I think what you'll see
emerging is this notion of
a global one world classroom.
And that's essentially what
we're trying to build.
Thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Awesome.
Very good talking to you [INAUDIBLE].
>> Oh, okay.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Okay.
>> I've seen some things you're doing
in the system that have to do
with motivation and feedback.
>> Energy points, merit badges.
Tell me what you're thinking there?
>> Oh, yeah, no.
We have an awesome team working on it.
It's not, and I have to be clear,
it's not just me anymore.
I'm still doing all the videos.
We have a kind of a rock star
team doing the software.
Yeah, we've put a bunch of game mechanics
in there, where you get these badges,
we're gonna start having leader
boards by areas, and you get points.
It's actually been pretty interesting
>> Just the wording of the badging, or
how many points you get for doing
something, we see on a system wide basis.
Like tens of thousands of fifth graders or
sixth graders going one direction or
another depending on
what badge you give them.
[LAUGH]
>> And
the collaboration you're doing with
Los Altos, how did that come about?
>> Yeah, no, Los Altos has been kind of,
it was kind of crazy.
Once again, I didn't expect
it to be used in classrooms.
Someone from their board came and said,
oh what would you do if you had
carte blanche in a classroom?
And I said, well you know,
I would just, every student work at
their own pace on something like this,
we'd give a dashboard, and you know,
they said oh, this is kind of radical.
We have to think about it.
And me and the rest of the team,
like oh, you know,
they're never gonna want to do this.
But, literally the next day they were
like, can you start in two weeks?
[LAUGH]
>> So it's this fifth grade math,
that's going on right now?
>> It's two fifth grade classes and
two seventh grade classes, and I think
they're doing it at the district level and
I think what they're excited about is
>> They can now follow these kids.
It's not an only in school thing.
On Christmas we saw some
of the kids were doing.
and we can track everything.
So it can actually track them as they
go through the entire district through
the summer as they go from
one teacher to the next.
You have this continuity of data that
even at the district level they can see.
>> So some of those views we saw were for
the teacher to go in and track actually
what's going on with those kids?
So you're giving feedback on those teacher
views to see what they think they need?
>> Oh, yeah.
Actually,
most of those were kind
of specs by the teachers.
We made some of those for students so
they could see their data, but
we have a very tight design loop
with the teachers themselves and
they're literally saying, hey,
you know, this is nice but.
Like that focus graph, a lot of the
teachers said I have a feeling that a lot
of the kids are jumping around and
not focusing on one topic, so
we made that focus
>> A diagram for them.
So it's all been teacher-driven,
it's been pretty crazy.
>> Is this ready for prime time?
Do you think a lot of classes next
school year should try this thing out?
>> Yeah, it's ready, we got a million
people on the site already so
we can handle a few more.
And it's a [LAUGH] It's,
no reason why it really can't happen
in every classroom in America tomorrow.
>> And the vision of the tutoring thing.
The idea there is,
if I'm confused about a topic,
somehow right in user interface,
I'd find people who are volunteering,
maybe see their reputation and I could
schedule and connect up with those people.
>> Absolutely.
And, this is something I recommend
everyone in this audience to do is, you
can, those dashboards that teachers have,
you can go log in right now and you could
get, you could essentially, become a coach
for your kids, your nephews, your cousins.
Or, maybe some kids at the Boys and
Girls Club.
And yeah, you can start becoming a mentor,
or a tutor really immediately.
Yeah.
Hey, it's all there.
Well, it's amazing.
I think you've just got a glimpse
of the future of education.
Thank you.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Thank you.
>> [MUSIC].